# Chapter 11

components.js (updated)
- get elements, because component can have fragment in it and we need to have the firstElement right to patch the node correctly. We reccursly call child.component.elements if the component contain components
- updateProps, add the new props to the props obect and patch(so re-render)

destroy-dom.js (updated)
just call `vdom.component.unmount()` for component vdom

h.js (updated)
- add DOM_TYPES.COMPONENT
- h, return element or component wheter the tag is a string or a function(a class is a function)

mount-dom.js (updated)
- mountDOM, added a case for DOM_TYPES.COMPONENT
- createComponentNode, instanciate the component with the props, call the mount method and save comoponent and element references

patch-dom.js (updated)
- handle the case to patch a component
- patchComponent, update the props and the references.

## A rendering optimization (optional)

Mainly use a package to check a deep object (fast-deep-equal). Also update the rollup script to Transforms the fast-deep-equal library code from CommonJS to ES syntax, allowing Rollup to bundle the library code. And Resolves the fast-deep-equal library, which is a third-party module, and includes it in the bundle. By default, Rollup resolves only modules that are part of your project. This plugin allows you to resolve third-party modules and include them in the bundle.

## Events

Events vs. callbacks
If you’ve used React, you’re probably used to passing callbacks from parent to child components:

```js
function MyButton({ onClick }) {
  return <button onClick={onClick}>Click me</button>
}
```

Then the parent component defines a function that will be called when the button is clicked and passes it to the child component:


```js
function App() {
  function handleClick() {
    console.log('Ooh la la!')
  }

  return <MyButton onClick={handleClick} />
}
```

In other frameworks, such as Vue, you emit an event from the child component instead and never receive the callback function from the parent component:

```html
<template>
  <button @click="$emit('click')">Click me</button>
</template>
```

The $emit() method, which is similar to what you’ll implement in this section, emits a custom (non-DOM) event. Then the parent component listens to that event:

```html
<script setup>
  import MyButton from './MyButton.vue'

  function handleClick() {
    console.log('Ooh la la!')
  }
</script>

<template>
  <MyButton @click="handleClick" />
</template>
```

Although these two approaches seem to be different, you’ll see as you implement this feature that they’ve very similar. The difference is mostly syntactical, related to how a framework decides to expose the feature to the developer.

In the case of React, using JSX (which is a more convenient way of defining the virtual DOM tree for your view), you operate at the virtual DOM level. Thus, you must explicitly pass the event-handler function from the parent to the child component. In the case of Vue, you work with a template. It feels natural to add event handlers inside the template of a component to handle the events that its child components emit. But under the hood, Vue compiles your template into a render function that operates at the virtual DOM level, where the event handler is passed to the child component as a prop—the same thing that happens in React.

## Summary

- A parent component can pass data to a child component by passing it as props.
- A child component can pass data to a parent component by emitting events to which the parent component can subscribe.
- The child component saves the registered event handlers in a #eventHandlers object and subscribes them to its dispatcher when the component is mounted.
- When the state of a component changes or its props change, the component re-renders its view. In this process, when a subcomponent appears in the view tree, the parent component passes the subcomponent’s props to it and tells it to re-render its view.

### Code catchup

In chapter 11, you added the component as a new type of virtual DOM node and extended the h() function to support it. You modified the mountDOM() function to include a case for the component type, handled by the createComponentNode() function. You also modified the destroyDOM() function to include a case for the component, in this case simply calling the component’s unmount() method.

Then you worked on adapting the patchDOM() function to support the component type. For that purpose, you had to include a new method in the Component class: updateProps(). This method is called inside the patchComponent() function, which you wrote to handle the component case in the patchDOM() function.

You implemented a mechanism for components to handle events emitted by their child components, which involved adding two new private properties to the Component class: #eventHandlers and #parentComponent. Then you wrote a function called extractPropsAndEvents() to extract the props and events from the props object of a virtual DOM node and used it inside the createComponentNode() and patchComponent() functions. A component subscribes to the events by using the #wireEventHandlers() private method, which you call inside mount(). You managed these subscriptions by using an instance of the Dispatcher class, saved inside the component as the #dispatcher private property.

Last, you wrote a new method, emit(), used to emit events from a component to its parent component.