# Chapter 12

This solution isn’t possible because the areNodesEqual() function receives one node from the old virtual DOM tree, which contains a reference to the component instance, and another node from the new virtual DOM tree, which doesn’t. Without access to the instantiated component in the new virtual DOM, you can’t access its internal state and props.

Your areNodesEqual() function would receive the following old and new nodes:

```
const oldNode = {
  type: 'component',
  tag: Counter,
  props: {},
  component: <instance of Counter>,
}

const newNode = {
  type: 'component',
  tag: Counter,
  props: {},
}
```

The goal of this chapter is to explore the solution to this problem. As you might have guessed from the title of the chapter, that solution is the key attribute that the developer can provide to each component.

## Summary

- In a list of components, a unique key must be provided to each component so that the reconciliation algorithm can differentiate among them.
- In a list of elements, the key isn’t mandatory, but using it improves performance. Without a key attribute, the reconciliation algorithm will do more work than necessary.
- The key must be unique and invariant in the list of elements or components.
Never use the index of the element of component as the key because when an element is removed, added, or moved, the index of the rest of the elements will change.

## Code catch up

In chapter 12, you updated the areNodesEqual() function to include the case of two component nodes. This function checks whether the component types are the same and their key props—if they have one—are equal. You made a quick modification to the extractPropsAndEvents() function to remove the key property from the props object so that it doesn’t reach the component and isn’t mistaken for a prop.

You also included the key prop comparison for the case of two element nodes inside the areNodesEqual() function. This change required you to modify the createElementNode() and addProps() functions to use the extractPropsAndEvents() function so that the key prop is removed from the props object before it reaches the element creation and is mistaken for an HTML attribute.

Last, you rewrote the createApp() function and exported it from the runtime package by exporting it from the index.js file.