# Chapter 13

you want to mount the entire application synchronously and then execute all the onMounted() hooks in the order in which they were encountered, ensuring that they complete and their errors are handled.

## Changes

- component.js (update)
we added two lifecycles methods onMounted and onUnmounted (defined as empty function by default). To handle async we use Promise.resolve also we bind or rather call the function with the right this. 

- destroy-dom.js (update)
when we destroy / unmount a component, we are enqeueing the unmount method in the scheduler.

- mount-dom.js (update)
when we mount a component we a enqeueing the onmonted method to the scheduler

- scheduler.js (created)
  - create a singleton of jobs
  - call https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/queueMicrotask to add a callback function with within the lifecycle method in it and handle async error. To not make multiples update in parallel


## Code catch

In chapter 13, you defined two new functions that can be passed as arguments to the defineComponent() function: onMounted() and onUnmounted(). You implemented two new methods in the Component class, also called onMounted() and onUnmounted(), that wrap those two functions inside a Promise and bind them to the component instance.

Then you implemented a simple scheduler to run the hooks asynchronously. The scheduler’s API consists of one function: enqueueJob(), which queues a job to be executed asynchronously.

The scheduler uses two more functions internally:

scheduleUpdate()—Queues the processJobs() function to be executed as a microtask
processJobs()—Runs all the jobs in the scheduler
Last, you modified the mountDOM() and destroyDOM() functions to enqueue the onMounted() and onUnmounted() hooks, respectively, as jobs in the scheduler.